interviews :

grep command   mean 
i Need to search root    specific word    -grep  etc/apt/sources
suppose want to gr  cat /etc/group
cat /etc/password

Kubectl inspect  -- network 
kubectcl ns 
master /slave   - kuberneters cluster

Happies mind : Interview
 ** Question :
 
 Application vs network load balancer
 Asw code Pipline  
 CI/CD-- jenkins
 maven -build automatication tool 
 command  to run the web base application -- springboot --- java frame work it web based application
 jenkins CI  --- project  in freestyle an dalso pipeline.
 
 have worked on azure platform (pipeline code)
 
 over all erperien can u brief it.  

AZ -- RDS

A multi-AZ (Availability Zone) database is a high availability configuration in cloud-based database services 
that replicates data to a secondary data center (AZ) for automatic failover, ensuring data resilience and minimal downtime.



role and policies different - IAM  --- Permisssion 

3.Here are five common networking-related commands in Linux:

    ifconfig or ip addr: Display network interface configuration, including IP addresses and other network-related information.

    ping [hostname or IP]: Send ICMP echo requests to test network connectivity and measure round-trip time to a target host.

    nslookup [hostname]: Look up the IP address of a host using DNS (Domain Name System) resolution.

    netstat -tuln: List open network ports and associated services on the system.

    traceroute [hostname or IP]: Trace the route packets take to reach a destination host, showing all the hops along the way.
	
4. ACL vs NCL different
In a DevOps interview, ACL (Access Control List) and NCL (Network Control List) are different terms. ACL manages permissions for resources, typically within a network, 
while NCL specifies rules to control inbound/outbound traffic in a network, often in cloud-based environments like AWS.

5. Public vs Private

        Public resources are accessible from the internet, typically with a public IP or DNS.
        Public resources can be accessed by anyone with internet connectivity.
        AWS provides services like Amazon S3 with public access by default, which needs careful access control.
Private Resources:
        Private resources are not directly accessible from the internet.
        Private resources are often used for databases, internal applications, and services that don't need direct internet access.
        To access private resources, you can set up VPNsI'm interested or Direct Connect for secure connections.
    Hybrid Architectures:
        Many AWS environments use a combination of public and private resources to strike a balance between accessibility and security.
        Hybrid architectures allow for public-facing components (e.g., load balancers) and private backend components (e.g., databases) to work together effectively.

6. Copy and Move command 
CP cp [options] source destination  (Copies files or directories from one location to another)
MV mv [options] source destinat(Moves files or directories from one location to another)

7. KUBECTL VS NOde
kubectl is a command-line tool for managing Kubernetes clusters, while a "node" in Kubernetes is a worker machine responsible for running containers.
kubctl get pod
kubectl get namespace
kubectl descibe the pod podname
kubectl logs
kubectl exec -t podname

8. Architectures Kubernetes
GKE
Kubernetes is a container orchestration platform with a master and multiple nodes; the master controls the cluster, and nodes run containers, 
ensuring scalability, high availability, and automation for containerized applications.
maintained by CNCF-Cloud native Computing Foundation (CNCF) open source project in july 2014.


9.What is Docker
Docker is a platform for developing, shipping, and running applications in containers, 
which are lightweight, isolated environments that package an application and its dependencies.
10. what is container 
A container is a lightweight, standalone, and executable software package that includes an application and 
all its dependencies, making it easy to run consistently across different environments.
11.Jenkins Master/salve
Jenkins master/slave is a distributed build and automation architecture where the master manages job scheduling and monitoring,
while multiple slave nodes execute build tasks,enabling scalability and parallelism in continuous integration.

Types of intances :
1.Amazon EC2 General Purpose (M-Series): 
2. Amazon EC2 Compute-Optimized (C-Series)
3.Amazon EC2 Memory-Optimized (R-Series, X-Series)
4.Amazon EC2 Storage-Optimized (I-Series, D-Series):
5.Amazon EC2 GPU Instances (P-Series, G-Series)
6. Amazon EC2 Network-Optimized (N-Series):w
7. Amazon EC2 Burstable Instances (T-Series):

12. GIT HUB
GitHub is an online platform for version control and collaborative software development, enabling teams and individuals to store, manage, and track changes to their code repositories,
 and facilitating collaboration through features like pull requests, issue tracking, and code review.
 13. GIT VS GIT HUB
     Git: Git is a distributed version control system that allows developers to track changes in their codebase, 
	 collaborate with others, and manage code repositories locally on their computers. It is not a web-based platform.
    GitHub: GitHub, on the other hand, is a web-based platform built around Git.
	It provides a cloud-based environment for hosting, sharing, and collaborating on Git repositories. GitHub offers features such as pull requests, issue tracking, and a web-based interface for managing Git repositories, 
	making it a popular choice for distributed software development and version control.
14.
    VPC (Virtual Private Cloud): VPC is a virtual network that you can define
	within a cloud provider like AWS. It allows you to logically isolate your cloud resources, control their network settings, and connect them securely to the internet or other VPCs.

    Route Table: A route table is a configuration that defines how network
	traffic should be directed within a VPC or between a VPC and external networks. It specifies routes and their destinations,
	helping determine where data should be forwarded.

    15.
	CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing): CIDR is a method for allocating 
	and specifying IP addresses and routing information. It allows for more efficient use of IP address space by using a prefix length notation (e.g., 192.168.1.0/24) to represent a network's address range and subnet mask.
	
	    HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol): HTTP is the foundation of data communication on the World Wide Web and typically uses port 80 for unencrypted web traffic.

    HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure): HTTPS is a secure version of HTTP, encrypting data transfer, and it usually uses port 443.
s
    RDS (Relational Database Service): RDS is a managed database service by AWS. It typically uses port 3306 for MySQL, 5432 for PostgreSQL, and others for various database engines.

    SSH (Secure Shell): SSH is a secure protocol for remote access to a server or computer. It commonly uses port 22 for secure shell connections.

16.
S3 lifecycle management is a feature in Amazon S3 that automates the process of transitioning objects between different storage classes 
(e.g., from standard to infrequent access) and even automatically deleting objects 
that have reached the end of their specified retention period, helping optimize storage costs and data management



we can create  multiple task it is called a jobs

convert Hight level language to low level language that is called compiling

build : some will generate war file jar file  or exec file etc 
building code 

Springboot - it a java frame work  - web base application - it will run on browser

MAven build    automation tool with help of we can build java code primary

mnv clean , maven install, mvn package  - command 


java -jar spring-snaphot.jar  --server.port=8081

as soon as developer push the code in centrailized location  


primarlily we will provide the distribution of jenkins 

JNLP agent port is disable 

Agents - TCP port for inbound agents																							 	agent port
